network_abbr;orig_flag_name;orig_flag_description
BNZ-LTER;E;EstimatedMissing
BNZ-LTER;G;Good
BNZ-LTER;Q;Questionable
BNZ-LTER;M;Missing
COSMOS-UK;4;Too few sample - Data with too few half hourly samples.For variables that are a sum or average of numerous continuous readings in the preceding half hour period; if less than a third of these readings are missing the measurement is considered unreliable and data are removed.
COSMOS-UK;1;Missing - No data received from logger.
COSMOS-UK;0;Good
COSMOS-UK;E;Estimated. Where the value contains some degree of uncertainty. This can be for one of two reasons:1. The value was aggregated with less than a full set of data. For example, a daily mean temperature where some of the sub daily values were missing.2. The value was aggregated or derived with some degree of infilled data. For example, if net radiation (RN) was calculated using an infilled SWIN value.
COSMOS-UK;I;Infilled. Where missing data has been filled in directly using an infill method. See Section 5 for more details on infilling.
COSMOS-UK;U;Unchecked. Where data had had no quality control (QC).Note, data that has been derived from QC’d data, e.g. net radiation, is not itself QC’d, however is still consider checked. The only truly unchecked data is the daily greenness proportion (GCC).
COSMOS-UK;M;Missing. Where data has been lost and not infilled.Note, for snow parameters, e.g. SNOW_DEPTH, the values are only given on snow days. This means there is no data on non-snow days, but it is not considered missing and will not have the M flag.
COSMOS-UK;1024;Error codes - Data where the logger programme has assigned an error code value due to a sensor/programme fault.When there is a fault with the sensor for some variables the logger programme can record a value of 7999.
COSMOS-UK;512;Spike - Data that are greater than a threshold value smaller/larger than the neighbouring values.If a value is greater than a certain threshold away from its neighbouring values this is removed.
COSMOS-UK;128;Secondary variable - Data dependant on another variable and the other variable is incorrect.Some measurements are dependent on the measurements of another variable being reasonable. For example measurements of the components of radiation are not reliable when the body temperature (of the radiometer) measurement is out of the acceptable range. This test will remove values from the dependent variables if the main variable is not correct.
COSMOS-UK;64;Out of range - Data that are outside an acceptable range for that variable.Each variable measured at each site has a minimum and maximum value set. If the measurement of this particular variable goes out of this range it will be removed.
COSMOS-UK;32;Diagnostic flag - Data that has been assigned a diagnostic flag by the instrument.
COSMOS-UK;16;Sensor fault - Data associated with a sensor that has a known fault. These are registered manually by the operations team.
COSMOS-UK;8;Low power - Data recorded where battery voltage is low.Low battery power can mean measurements are missing or unreliable. If the battery pack voltage goes below 11V the associated data will be removed.
COSMOS-UK;2;Zero data - Data equal to zero where this is not a possible value.For certain variables missing data are marked using a zero.  For variables where this is true any zero values are removed as these are assumed to be missing.
DWD;3;checked, value is plausible
DWD;0;not checked
DWD;-9999;no flag
DWD;2;checked, value is not plausible
DWD;1;checked, value is wrong
IMA_CAN1;C;Checked manually
IMA_CAN1;U;Unchecked
KIHS_CMC;G;Good
KIHS_CMC;M;Missing
KIHS_SMC;G;Good
KIHS_SMC;M;Missing
MOL-RAO;I;Interpolated
MOL-RAO;G;Good
MOL-RAO;D;Dubious
MOL-RAO;U;Unchecked
MOL-RAO;B;Bad
MOL-RAO;M;Missing
RISMA;Frozen_soil;activated if the soil temperature is below zero degrees Celsius and indicates that the soil moisture readings should not be used
RISMA;STC_averaged_using_sensor_1_and_2-Frozen_soil;
RISMA;STC_averaged_using_sensor_1_and_2-OK;
RISMA;STC_averaged_using_1_and_2;activated when hydra probe sensor #3 does not measure soil temperature. The average soil temperature from sensor #1 and 2 is used instead. Occurs at some ON stations
RISMA;CON_ge_0.2;activated when temperature corrected soil conductivity (CON) is equal to or larger than 0.2 S/m
RISMA;Out_of_WFV_average_range;activated if Soil Moisture value (m3/m3) is more than 10% different from the average, ie if there are sudden changes in soil moisture (these could be due to rain events or data noise; the flag is there to assist in interpretation along with rain gauge data)
RISMA;OK;OK
RISMA;DLT_ge_1.5;activated when the Dielectric Loss Tangent (DLT = Imaginary Dielectric Permittivity / RealDielectric Permittivity) is equal to or larger than 1.5
RISMA;Out_of_RDC_range;activated when Real Dielectric Permittivity (RDC) is less than 2.4
RISMA;NA;NA
RISMA;Out_of_WFV_range;activated if the Soil Moisture (m3/m3) is less than 0.02 or greater than 0.60
SCAN;K;Internal Estimate: Data value is revised using an estimate from other sensors or stations. Does not apply to data that are smoothed to adjust for minor sensor fluctuations which would receive the ‘E’ flag
SCAN;N;No Assigned Profile: There is no existing delta/range profile for the data value, or the profiles are inactive. After data review, the N flags should be converted to V for valid, S for suspect, or E/K for an updated 
SCAN;None;no flag
SCAN;S;Suspect: Data value is outside the limits of the stored delta/range profile.
SCAN;E;Edited: Data value is revised to correct for signal noise on an otherwise functioning sensor.
SCAN;V;Valid: Data value is within the limits of the Storage delta/range profile or determined to be valid through human review.
SCAN;C;Correction: Assigned when a different multiplier or equation is applied to the sensor voltage (e.g. correcting for wrong transducer size, or unbiased temperature data).
SCAN;M;Missing: Assigned for to a null value.
SNOTEL;M;Missing: Assigned for to a null value.
SNOTEL;E;Edited: Data value is revised to correct for signal noise on an otherwise functioning sensor.
SNOTEL;N;No Assigned Profile: There is no existing delta/range profile for the data value, or the profiles are inactive. After data review, the N flags should be converted to V for valid, S for suspect, or E/K for an updated 
SNOTEL;K;Internal Estimate: Data value is revised using an estimate from other sensors or stations. Does not apply to data that are smoothed to adjust for minor sensor fluctuations which would receive the ‘E’ flag
SNOTEL;S;Suspect: Data value is outside the limits of the stored delta/range profile.
SNOTEL;None;no flag
SNOTEL;V;Valid: Data value is within the limits of the Storage delta/range profile or determined to be valid through human review.
SNOTEL;C;Correction: Assigned when a different multiplier or equation is applied to the sensor voltage (e.g. correcting for wrong transducer size, or unbiased temperature data).
SOILSCAPE;5;(C) Exceeds field size (Negative SM values, fixed at 0.1 percent)
SOILSCAPE;4;(M) Missing
SOILSCAPE;0;(G) Good (Standard for all data)
SOILSCAPE;2;(I) Interpolated / Estimated
SOILSCAPE;3;(B) Bad (Manually flagged)
SOILSCAPE;1;(D) Dubious (Automatically flagged, spikes etc.)
TAHMO;2;Suspect
TAHMO;1;Good
TAHMO;3;Doubtful
TAHMO;4;Erroneous
TERENO;4_3033;approved upload - suspicious - noisy data
TERENO;4_3014;approved upload - suspicious_unknown
TERENO;4_4011;approved upload - baddata - min
TERENO;4_2026;approved upload - ok - moderate quality
TERENO;noData;no Data
TERENO;4_3012;approved upload - suspicious - max
TERENO;4_18;data level 2c "approved upload", generic flag "bad data", qualifierid "isolated spike"
TERENO;4_4024;approved upload - baddata - bad quality
TERENO;4_4023;approved upload - baddata - frozen
TERENO;4_1001;approved upload - unevaluated - unevaluated
TERENO;4_4012;approved upload - baddata - max
TERENO;nodata;no Data
TERENO;4_3017;approved upload - suspicious - missing
TERENO;4_3048;approved upload - suspicious - inconsistent time period
TERENO;4_3020;approved upload - suspicious - unplausible variation
TERENO;4_4019;approved upload - baddata - isolated spike
TERENO;None;no Data
TERENO;4_4036;approved upload - baddata - technical disturbance
TERENO;4_4013;approved upload - baddata - irregular
TERENO;4_4020;approved upload - baddata - unplausible variation
TERENO;4_4058;approved upload - baddata - max precipitation 2d
TERENO;4_4018;approved upload - baddata - out of order
TERENO;4_3011;approved upload - suspicious - min
TERENO;4_4033;approved upload - baddata - noisy data
TERENO;4_2002;approved upload - ok - ok
TERENO;4_4021;approved upload - baddata - data transfer disturbed
TERENO;4_3023;approved upload - suspicious - frozen
TERENO;4_4059;approved upload - baddata - max preciptiation 5d
TERENO;4_3037;approved upload - suspicious - maintenance disturbance
TERENO;4_15;data level 2c "approved upload", generic flag "bad data", qualifierid "irregular data (NaN, infinite)"
TERENO;4_4022;approved upload - baddata - data not plausible
TERENO;4_2025;approved upload - ok - good quality
TERENO;4_2;data level 2c "approved upload", generic flag "good or acceptable data", qualified "good or acceptable data"
TERENO;4_19;data level 2c "approved upload", generic flag "bad data", qualifierid "sensor is out of order or delivers unplausible or meaningless data"
TERENO;4_3036;approved upload - suspicious - technical disturbance
TERENO;4_3044;approved upload - suspicious - no data change
TWENTE;7;saturated plateau
TWENTE;6;constant low values following negative breaks
TWENTE;5;soil moisture jump detected using a spectrum based approach
TWENTE;4;soil moisture drop detected using a spectrum based approach
TWENTE;3;spike detected based on variance/mean, soil moisture change and second derivative criteria
TWENTE;2;soil moisture above 0.7 m3/m3  or soil temperature above 50 oC
TWENTE;1;soil moisture below 0.0 m3/m3  or soil temperature below -20 oC
TWENTE;0;operates nominal
TWENTE;9;data is not valid
USCRN;3;erroneous
USCRN;0;good